CFN: Resilient Workflow (#5771)
awsdocs/aws-doc-sdk-examples: aws-cfn/cross-service/resilient-workflow/README.md

1. A DynamoDB table that acts as a service that recommends books, movies, and songs.
2. An instance profile and an associated role and policy that grants permission to
   instances to access DynamoDB and Systems Manager.
3. A launch template that specifies the instance profile and a startup script
   that starts a Python web server on each instance.
4. An Auto Scaling group that starts EC2 instances, one in each of three
   Availability Zones.
5. An Application Load Balancer that handles HTTP requests to a single endpoint.
6. A target group that connects the load balancer to instances in the Auto Scaling group.
7. A listener that is added to the load balancer and forwards requests to the target group.

To deploy these resources, you will need to provide several pieces of information about your AWS Account.

| Parameter | AWS CLI                                                                                                      |
| --------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `VPCId`   | `aws ec2 describe-vpcs --filters Name=is-default,Values=true --query 'Vpcs[0].VpcId'`                        |

> | `SGId`    | `ssh -i "doc-example-resilience-key.pem" ec2-user@ec2-3-236-224-203.compute-1.amazonaws.com`                 |

Author: Wrong thing in the clipboard, I guess. Fixed.

> | `Subnets` | `aws ec2 describe-subnets --filters Name=vpc-id,Values="vpc-0abcdef1234567890" --query 'Subnets[].SubnetId'` |

Author: Flipped.

After running these commands, replace the placeholders in `params.json` with the returned values.

```
aws cloudformation create-stack \
  --stack-name resilient-service \
  --template-body file://./resilient-service.yaml \

>   --parameters: file://./params.json \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  --parameters file://./params.json \
```

  --capabilities CAPABILITY_NAMED_IAM
```

> After creating the stack, you can find the URL for the Load Balancer in the stack's parameters.

Reviewer: Until the stack is created, the next command just returns `null`. You might mention this.

Author: Sure, done.

```

> aws cloudformation describe-stacks --stack-name resilience-demo --query 'Stacks[0].Outputs[?OutputKey==`LB`].OutputValue | [0]'

Reviewer: Need double quotes on Windows.

Author: Done

Author: Undone and added a note (because "`LB`" tries to execute LB on bash... you can never win...)

> aws cloudformation describe-stacks --stack-name resilience-demo --query 'Stacks[0].Outputs[?OutputKey==`LB`].OutputValue | [0]'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
aws cloudformation describe-stacks --stack-name resilient-service --query "Stacks[0].Outputs[?OutputKey==`LB`].OutputValue | [0]"
```

# "doc-example-resilience-lb-0123456789.us-east-1.elb.amazonaws.com"
```

You can then access the URL via your browser or using `curl`.

##### Demonstrate resiliency

This part of the example demonstrates resiliency by simulating several kinds of failures.
It uses Systems Manager parameters to update how the web server responds to requests. It
also uses health checks to show how to make your web server more resilient to failure.

Along with recommendations returned by the DynamoDB table, the web service includes the
instance ID and Availability Zone so you can see how the load balancer distributes
requests among the instances in the Auto Scaling group.

The scenario takes the following steps. After editing the `params.json` file for each step, update the stack
to see the changes by running an `update-stack` command.

```
aws cloudformation update-stack \
  --stack-name resilient-service \
  --template-body file://./resilient-service.yaml \

>   --parameters: file://./params.json \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  --parameters file://./params.json \
```

  --capabilities CAPABILITY_NAMED_IAM
```

> 

Reviewer: It might also be interesting to include instructions on how to get the health of the target instances, which you can do with cli `aws elbv2 describe-target-health --target-group-arn <tg-arn>`

Author: Done.

1. **Initial state: healthy** — Sends requests to the endpoint to get recommendations and verify that instances
   are healthy.
2. **Broken dependency** — Sets a parameter that specifies a nonexistent DynamoDB table name. This simulates a
   failure of the recommendation service. Requests for recommendations now return a failure
   code. All instances still report as healthy because they only implement shallow health checks. For this
   example, a shallow health check means the web server always reports itself as healthy as long as the
   load balancer can connect to it.

>    Edit `params.json`. Add a new entry with `ParameterKey` as `SSMTable` and `ParameterValue` as `bad_table`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Edit `params.json`. Add a new entry with `ParameterKey` as `SSMTableName` and `ParameterValue` as `bad_table`.
```

>    After updating, the service should report healthy but return `500` responses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   After updating, the service should report healthy but return `502` responses.
```

3. **Static response** — Updates a parameter that prompts the web server to return a static response when the
   recommendation service fails. Requests for recommendations now return a static response,
   which is a better customer experience.

>    Edit `params.json`. Change the entry with `ParameterKey` as `SSMFailure` and set `ParameterValue` to `static`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Edit `params.json`. Add a new entry with `ParameterKey` as `SSMFailure` and set `ParameterValue` to `static`.
```

4. **Bad credentials** — Sets the table name parameter so the recommendations service succeeds, but also
   updates one of the instances to use an instance profile that contains bad credentials.
   Now, when the load balancer selects the bad instance to serve a request, it returns
   a static response because it cannot access the recommendation service, but the other
   instances return real recommendations.

>    Edit `params.json` and remove the `SSMTable` entry from step 2. Edit `resilient-service.yaml`. Update the ... to use ....

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Edit `params.json` and remove the `SSMTableName` entry from step 2. Edit `resilient-service.yaml`. Update the ... to use ....
```

>    Edit `params.json` and remove the `SSMTable` entry from step 2. Edit `resilient-service.yaml`. Update the ... to use ....

Reviewer: I'm thinking you meant to include more than "update ... to use ...."?

Author: Must have left this as a TODO for myself & missed it.

Author: Done!

   a new instance in its place. During this process, the stopping and starting instances are unhealthy so they
   don't receive any requests, but the load balancer continues to forward requests to healthy
   instances. When the new instance is ready, it is added to the rotation and starts receiving
   requests.

   Using the AWS Console, open the CloudFormation page. Navigate to the `resilience-demo` stack. Click on the `Resources`
   tab. Find the `DocExampleRecommendationServiceTargetGroup` line. Click on the link to the "Physical Resource ID".
   From this EC2 page, find the list of instances in the target group. Select one and navigate to it. Choose Actions ->
   Terminate instance. See EC2 terminate the instance, and watch the Autoscaling Group start a new instance.

7. **Fail open** — Sets the table name parameter so the recommendations service fails for all instances.
   Because all instances are using deep health checks, they all report as unhealthy. In this
   case, the load balancer continues to forward requests to all instances. This lets the
   system fail open and lets the instances return static responses, rather than fail closed
   and report failure.

>    Edit `params.json`. Add a new entry with `ParameterKey` as `SSMTable` and `ParameterValue` as `bad_table`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Edit `params.json`. Add a new entry with `ParameterKey` as `SSMTableName` and `ParameterValue` as `bad_table`.
```

>    After updating, the service should report healthy but return `500` responses.

Reviewer: This should be the opposite. Health checks should be unhealthy, but the load balancer should forward requests to them anyway and because we previously implemented static response, it should return a static response.

Author: Done.

##### Destroy resources

Use AWS CloudFormation to clean up all resources created for this example.

1. Delete the load balancer and target group.
2. Stop all instances and delete the Auto Scaling group.
3. Delete the launch template and instance profile.
4. Delete the DynamoDB recommendations table.

```
aws cloudformation delete-stack \

>   --stack-name doc-example-resilient-service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  --stack-name resilient-service
```

   are healthy.
2. **Broken dependency** — Sets a parameter that specifies a nonexistent DynamoDB table name. This simulates a
   failure of the recommendation service. Requests for recommendations now return a failure
   code. All instances still report as healthy because they only implement shallow health checks. For this
   example, a shallow health check means the web server always reports itself as healthy as long as the
   load balancer can connect to it.

   Edit `params.json`. Add a new entry with `ParameterKey` as `SSMTableName` and `ParameterValue` as `bad_table`.
   After updating, the service should report healthy but return `502` responses.

3. **Static response** — Updates a parameter that prompts the web server to return a static response when the
   recommendation service fails. Requests for recommendations now return a static response,
   which is a better customer experience.

   Edit `params.json`. Add a new entry with `ParameterKey` as `SSMFailure` and set `ParameterValue` to `static`.

4. **Bad credentials** — Sets the table name parameter so the recommendations service succeeds, but also

>    updates one of the instances to use an instance profile that contains bad credentials.

Reviewer: You're just removing the association of the instance profile, so I'd restate this to say that instead of updating with bad credentials.

Author: Done

   Now, when the load balancer selects the bad instance to serve a request, it returns
   a static response because it cannot access the recommendation service, but the other

>    instances return real recommendations.

Reviewer: This doesn't seem to work without restarting the instance. From what I see, it hangs onto the credentials (probably because the boto3 instance is already created?) so removing the instance profile doesn't have any apparent effect.

Author: Done.

   To remove an IAM Instance Profile using the AWS CLI, follow these steps.

   1. Find the ARN of the target group with `` aws cloudformation describe-stacks --stack-name resilience-demo --query 'Stacks[0].Outputs[?OutputKey==`TGArn`].OutputValue | [0]' ``.
   2. With this target group ARN, query for the specific instances using `aws elbv2 describe-target-health --query 'TargetHealthDescriptions[*].Target.Id' --target-group-arn arn:aws:elasticloadbalancing:us-east-1:000000000000:targetgroup/doc-example-resilience-tg/exampleexample`.
   3. Choose one ID from this list, and find the instance profile association id with `aws ec2 describe-iam-instance-profile-associations --query 'IamInstanceProfileAssociations[0].AssociationId' --filters Name=instance-id,Values=i-0123456789`.
   4. Remove the association with `aws ec2 disassociate-iam-instance-profile --association-id iip-assoc-00000000000000000`
   5. Restart the instance with `aws ec2 reboot-instances --instance-ids i-0123456789`

>    > NOTE: These steps are for the purpose of this example only, and should generally not be taken in production environments.

Author: Preceding. Done.

   > Always use CloudFormation templates and Infrastructure as Code (IaC) to modify resources in production environments.

5. **Deep health checks** — Sets a parameter that instructs the web server to perform a deep health check.
   For this example, a deep health check means that the web server reports itself as unhealthy if it can't
   access the recommendations service. The instance with bad credentials reports as unhealthy and the load

>    balancer takes it out of rotation. Now, requests are forward only to healthy instances.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   balancer takes it out of rotation. Now, requests are forwarded only to healthy instances.
```

   Edit `params.json`. Change the entry with `ParameterKey` as `SSMHealthCheck` and set `ParameterValue` to `deep`.

6. **Replace the failing instance** — Terminates the unhealthy instance and lets Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling start
   a new instance in its place. During this process, the stopping and starting instances are unhealthy so they
   don't receive any requests, but the load balancer continues to forward requests to healthy
   instances. When the new instance is ready, it is added to the rotation and starts receiving
   requests.

>    Using the AWS Console, open the CloudFormation page. Navigate to the `resilience-demo` stack. Click on the `Resources`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Using the AWS Management Console, open the CloudFormation page. Navigate to the `resilience-demo` stack. Choose the `Resources`
```

>    tab. Find the `DocExampleRecommendationServiceTargetGroup` line. Click on the link to the "Physical Resource ID".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   tab. Find the `DocExampleRecommendationServiceTargetGroup` line. Choose the `Physical Resource ID` link.
```

>    From this EC2 page, find the list of instances in the target group. Select one and navigate to it. Choose Actions ->
>    Terminate instance. See EC2 terminate the instance, and watch the Autoscaling Group start a new instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   From this EC2 page, find the list of instances in the target group. Select one and navigate to it. Choose `Actions`,  `Terminate instance`. See EC2 terminate the instance, and watch the Auto Scaling group start a new instance.
```

7. **Fail open** — Sets the table name parameter so the recommendations service fails for all instances.
   Because all instances are using deep health checks, they all report as unhealthy. In this
   case, the load balancer continues to forward requests to all instances. This lets the
   system fail open and lets the instances return static responses, rather than fail closed
   and report failure.

   Edit `params.json`. Add a new entry with `ParameterKey` as `SSMTableName` and `ParameterValue` as `unknown`.
   After updating, the service should report unhealthy but return static responses.

##### Destroy resources

Use AWS CloudFormation to clean up all resources created for this example.

1. Delete the load balancer and target group.
2. Stop all instances and delete the Auto Scaling group.
3. Delete the launch template and instance profile.
4. Delete the DynamoDB recommendations table.

```
aws cloudformation delete-stack \
  --stack-name resilience-demo
```

## Additional resources

> - [AWS CLI CloudFormation commands reference](https://awscli.amazonaws.com/v2/documentation/api/latest/reference/cloudformation/index.html)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [AWS CLI CloudFormation Command Reference](https://awscli.amazonaws.com/v2/documentation/api/latest/reference/cloudformation/index.html)
```

> - [Application Load Balancers user guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/latest/application/introduction.html)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [User Guide for Application Load Balancers](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticloadbalancing/latest/application/introduction.html)
```

> - [Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling user guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/autoscaling/ec2/userguide/what-is-amazon-ec2-auto-scaling.html)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling User Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/autoscaling/ec2/userguide/what-is-amazon-ec2-auto-scaling.html)
```

> - [Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) user guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/concepts.html)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud User Guide for Linux Instances](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/concepts.html)
```

> - [AWS CloudFormation for Elastic Load Balancing v2 reference](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/AWS_ElasticLoadBalancingV2.html)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Elastic Load Balancing V2 reference in the AWS CloudFormation User Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/AWS_ElasticLoadBalancingV2.html)
```

> - [AWS CloudFormation for EC2 Auto Scaling reference](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/AWS_AutoScaling.html)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling reference in the AWS CloudFormation User Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/AWS_AutoScaling.html)
```

> - [AWS CloudFormation for EC2 reference](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/AWS_EC2.html)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Amazon EC2 reference in the AWS CloudFormation User Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/AWS_EC2.html)
```
